In the previous examples,
we've been working with a set of domain model classes for purchase orders.
Let's see how we can generate an XML Schema for those classes.
The JDK includes a few tools that are specifically for JAXB.
One of these tools is the schemagen tool.
What this tool does is generate an XSD file from domain model
classes that are annotated with JAXB annotations.
Take a look at example ps-jaxb-12-schemagen to try it out.
This example does not contain runnable code,
just the same set of domain model classes that we've
been using in all the examples.
Let's open a terminal so that we can run schemagen.
But before I run schemagen, I'll compile the Java classes using Maven.
Maven writes the compiled classes to the directory target/classes.
Now let's run schemagen.
I have to tell it where to find the class files using the cp option,
which stands for class path.
I'll also tell it I want to use the UTF-8 character encoding,
and then I specify the fully qualified name of the PurchaseOrder class.
It prints a warning that has to do with Java versions,
which is not really important, and tells us that it has written an XSD,
schema1.
xsd.
Let's open the XSD in IDE and see what it looks like.
If you look at the XSD, there are no big surprises there.
There's an element declaration for the purchaseOrder element,
which is what we expect since that class has an XmlRootElement annotation.
Then there are complex type declarations,
which correspond to the classes in the domain model,
purchaseOrder, item, customer, and address.
Finally, there's the simple type declaration for the loyalty enum,
which also looks like what you would expect.
Take look at the XSD yourself and compare it to the domain model classes to see how they correspond to each other.